The President:
Last week, I spoke to you about
my commitment to work with
Congress to pass health
care reform this year.
Today, I'd like to speak about
how that effort is essential to
restoring fiscal responsibility.
When it comes to the
cost of health care,
this much is clear: the status
quo is unsustainable for
families, businesses,
and government.
America spends nearly 50 percent
more per person on health care
than any other country.
Health care premiums have
doubled over the last decade,
deductibles and out-of-pocket
costs have skyrocketed,
and many with preexisting
conditions are denied coverage.
More and more, Americans
are being priced out of the
care they need.
These costs are also
hurting business,
as some big businesses are at a
competitive disadvantage with
their foreign counterparts, and
some small businesses are forced
to cut benefits, drop coverage,
or even lay off workers.
Meanwhile, Medicare and Medicaid
pose one of the greatest threats
to our federal deficit, and
could leave our children with a
mountain of debt
that they cannot pay.
We cannot continue
down this path.
I don't accept a future where
Americans forego health care
because they can't pay for it,
and more and more families go
without coverage at all.
And I don't accept a future
where American business is hurt
and our government goes broke.
We have a responsibility
to act, and to act now.
That's why I'm working with
Congress to pass reform that
lowers costs, improves
quality and coverage,
and protects consumer
health care choices.
I know some question whether we
can afford to act this year.
But the unmistakable truth is
that it would be irresponsible
to not act.
We can't keep shifting a growing
burden to future generations.
With each passing year, health
care costs consume a larger
share of our nation's spending,
and contribute to yawning
deficits that we can't control.
So let me be clear: health
care reform is not part of the
problem when it comes
to our fiscal future,
it's a fundamental
part of the solution.
Real reform will mean reductions
in our long term budget.
And I've made a firm commitment that health care reform will not
add to the federal deficit
over the next decade.
To keep that commitment, my
Administration has already
identified how to pay for the
historic $635 billion down
payment on reform
detailed in our budget.
This includes over $300 billion
that we will save through
changes like reducing Medicare
overpayments to private
insurers, and rooting out waste
in Medicare and Medicaid.
However, any honest accounting
must prepare for the fact that
health care reform will require
additional costs in the short
term in order to reduce
spending in the long-term.
So today, I'm announcing an
additional $313 billion in
savings that will rein
in unnecessary spending,
and increase efficiency
and the quality of care --
savings that will ensure that we have nearly $950 billion set
aside to offset the costs of health care reform over the next ten years.
These savings will come
from commonsense changes.
For example -- if more
Americans are insured,
we can cut payments that help
hospitals treat patients without
health insurance.
If the drug makers
pay their fair share,
we can cut government spending
on prescription drugs.
And if doctors have incentives
to provide the best care instead
of more care, we can help
Americans avoid the unnecessary
hospital stays, treatments,
and tests that drive up costs.
For more details about
these and other savings,
you can visit our website:
www.whitehouse.gov
These savings underscore the
fact that securing quality,
affordable health care for the
American people is tied directly
to insisting upon
fiscal responsibility.
And these savings are rooted in
the same principle that must
guide our broader approach to
reform: we will fix what's
broken, while building
upon what works.
If you like your
plan and your doctor,
you can keep them -- the only
changes that you'll see are
lower costs and
better health care.
For too long, we've stood by
while our health care system has
frayed at the seams.
While there has been excuse
after excuse to delay reform,
the price of care has gone up
for individuals, for business,
and for the government.
This time must be different.
This is the moment when we must
reform health care so that we
can build a new foundation
for our economy to grow;
for our people to thrive; and
for our country to pursue a
responsible and
sustainable path.
Thanks.
WEBVTT
Kind: captions
Language: en
The President:
Right now in Washington,
our Senate and House of
Representatives are both
debating proposals for health
insurance reform.
Today, I want to speak with you
about the stakes of this debate,
for our people and for
the future of our nation.
This is an issue that affects
the health and financial
well-being of every single
American and the stability of
our entire economy.
It's about every family unable
to keep up with soaring out of
pocket costs and premiums rising
three times faster than wages.
Every worker afraid of losing
health insurance if they lose
their job, or change jobs.
Everyone who's worried that they
may not be able to get insurance
or change insurance if
someone in their family has a
pre-existing condition.
It's about a woman in Colorado
who told us that when she was
diagnosed with breast cancer,
her insurance company --
the one she'd paid
over $700 a month to --
refused to pay
for her treatment.
She had to use up her retirement
funds to save her own life.
It's about a man from Maryland
who sent us his story --
a middle class college graduate
whose health insurance expired
when he changed jobs.
During that time, he
needed emergency surgery,
and woke up $10,000 in debt -- a debt that has left him unable to
save, buy a home, or
make a career change.
It's about every business
forced to shut their doors,
or shed jobs, or
ship them overseas.
It's about state governments
overwhelmed by Medicaid,
federal budgets
consumed by Medicare,
and deficits piling
higher year after year.
This is the status quo.
This is the system
we have today.
This is what the debate in
Congress is all about: Whether
we'll keep talking and tinkering
and letting this problem fester
as more families and
businesses go under,
and more Americans
lose their coverage.
Or whether we'll seize
this opportunity --
one we might not have
again for generations --
and finally pass health
insurance reform this year,
in 2009.
Now we know there are those who
will oppose reform no matter what.
We know the same special
interests and their agents in
Congress will make the
same old arguments,
and use the same scare tactics
that have stopped reform before
because they profit from this
relentless escalation in health care costs.
And I know that once you've seen
enough ads and heard enough
people yelling on TV, you might
begin to wonder whether there's
a grain of truth to
what they're saying.
So let me take a moment to
answer a few of their arguments.
First, the same folks who
controlled the White House and
Congress for the past eight
years as we ran up record
deficits will argue --
believe it or not --
that health reform will
lead to record deficits.
That's simply not true.
Our proposals cut hundreds
of billions of dollars in
unnecessary spending and
unwarranted giveaways to
insurance companies in
Medicare and Medicaid.
They change incentives so
providers will give patients the
best care, not just the
most expensive care,
which will mean big
savings over time.
And we've urged Congress
to include a proposal for a
standing commission of doctors
and medical experts to oversee
cost-savings measures.
I want to be very clear: I will
not sign on to any health plan
that adds to our deficits
over the next decade.
And by helping improve
quality and efficiency,
the reforms we make will help
bring our deficits under control
in the long-term.
Those who oppose reform will
also tell you that under our
plan, you won't get to
choose your doctor --
that some bureaucrat
will choose for you.
That's also not true.
Michelle and I don't want anyone
telling us who our family doctor
should be -- and no one should decide that for you either.
Under our proposal, if
you like your doctor,
you keep your doctor.
If you like your
current insurance,
you keep that insurance.
Period, end of story.
Finally, opponents of health
reform warn that this is all
some big plot for socialized
medicine or government-run
health care with long
lines and rationed care.
That's not true either.
I don't believe that government
can or should run health care.
But I also don't think insurance
companies should have free reign
to do as they please.
That's why any plan I sign must
include an insurance exchange: a
one-stop shopping marketplace
where you can compare the
benefits, costs, and track records of a variety of plans --
including a public option to
increase competition and keep
insurance companies honest -- and choose what's best for your family.
And that's why we'll put an end
to the worst practices of the
insurance industry: no more
yearly caps or lifetime caps;
no more denying people care
because of pre-existing
conditions; and no more dropping
people from a plan when they get too sick.
No longer will you be
without health insurance,
even if you lose your
job or change your jobs.
The good news is that people
who know the system best are
rallying to the cause of change.
Just this past week, the
American Nurses Association,
representing millions of
nurses across America,
and the American
Medical Association,
representing doctors
across our nation,
announced their support because
they've seen first-hand the need
for health insurance reform.
They know we cannot continue
to cling to health industry
practices that are
bankrupting families,
and undermining American
businesses, large and small.
They know we cannot let special
interests and partisan politics
stand in the way of reform
-- not this time around.
The opponents of health
insurance reform would have us
do nothing.
But think about
what doing nothing,
in the face of ever
increasing costs,
will do to you and your family.
So today, I'm urging
the House and the Senate,
Democrats and Republicans,
to seize this opportunity,
and vote for reform that gives
the American people the best
care at the lowest cost; that
reins in insurance companies,
strengthens businesses and
finally gives families the
choices they need and the
security they deserve.
Thanks.